---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

_Selecting an Open Source Project, and Questions for Aurelia_

## Questions on Project Selection

> What type of things are you looking for when you select an open source project to work on?  

Primarily I think it would be useful to select a project whose product is manageable to build and play around with, so that finding issues to report is more feasible. Additionally, I'm looking for projects that align with my technical skills, as least a bit, so that I might have an opportunity to be able to issue pull requests.

> What are you able to offer to the team that you will be working on for the project? (what are your strengths)

I'm fairly comfortable with Git, so if my team has issues in this area I think I'd be able to help. Besides that, I'm open-minded to learning new things that would help us all make more meaningful contributions.

> What are you hoping to learn from working on an open source project?

I want to learn more about the formalities behind making contributions by digging deep into the development and contributing documentation of a project. Each project is unique in structure, but I feel strongly that getting to know one project very well would be more useful an experience than treading lightly in a variety of projects.

> What are you most worried about when you are thinking about and planning to work on an open source project?

I worry mostly about not finding ways to contribute. Some projects are so far off from things that I'd be able to build and use, so I'm hoping to clear these barriers early.

## Questions for Aurelia

- How would you describe the work of a map scientist?
- It seems like education is a big part the work you do / have done. Why is this important to you?

## Contributions This Week

None for this week!
