---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

_Humanitarian Open Source, and Project Progress_  

## Classifying Projects as Humanitarian?  

One Open Source project that I have used before is called Materialize.css, which is based on Google's Material Design. These design guidelines push for visual accessibility in a number of ways: ensuring proper color contrast; providing closed captions, a transcript, or another visual alternatives to critical audio elements and sound alerts; keeping accessibility text short so that screen reader users can navigate it quickly. Pretty clearly, these guidelines work to improve the living conditions of those with difficulty parsing through websites. For these reasons, I think this project could have humanitarian aspects through increasing accessibility of products.  

I'd also argue that something like Wikipedia may also have humanitarian aspects. Wikipedia has increased ease of access to information about any subject in history, so long as someone has an internet connection. While this does not allow everyone in the world perfect access, more people than before have somewhere to get this information free of additional charge. Access to information and education are key factors in improving people's lives and their access to opportunity, so in a sense Wikipedia can be considered humanitarian.

## Project Progress  

> Report on the progress that you group made for your project.  

For the most part, our group made progress on finding some issues that we would like to contribute to. Namely, we found examples in the official examples sandbox that are either broken or do not have proper documentation. At the time of writing this, we are all still working on making little games with Phaser to learn the framework.

For more details, checkout the [README on our project repo](https://github.com/nyu-ossd-s18/phaser-coord)!  

> What is the next thing that you (as an individual) will be working on (as part of your team project)?

Personally, I am following the progress of lots of broken examples pertaining to the Geom library in Phaser. I'm trying to learn what is happening with the API in the transition from Version 2 to Version 3 before I try asking questions to the maintainer of the repo.


## My Contributions This Week

Almost, but none!

**Contributions Total: 9**
