---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

_The Cathedral and The Bazaar_

## Cathedral Model vs. Bazaar Model

In the Cathedral Model, software development is left to the hands of a few experts working toward some grand product, like a Cathedral. The Bazaar Model is more about involving the every-person, and gathering expertise from a breadth of people with different perspectives and agendas. Each of the models has its advantages and disadvantages from the perspective of users and developers.

As a young developer, I might prefer the Bazaar model. I've been a CS major for almost 4 years now, but since I'm still in school, I lack professional experience. Thus, I might not be qualified to do a whole lot of Cathedral-style work yet; however, I might have just enough skills to be able to contribute to Bazaar style projects that are open to newcomers. As a more experienced developer, the Cathedral model might be more enticing because it would be an opportunity to work on a project consolidated around my expertise. These aren't the only arguments, but it's easy to see how I would go either way depending on my experience.

I would argue that a more interesting perspective is that of the user. As a user, it might be hard to trust products developed in the Bazaar style. A user might prefer the Cathedral model on the basis of trust in the experts, especially if the product uses sensitive personal information about health or finances. Of course, some users might feel swayed from trusting experts if those experts are from a large, or predatory corporation. Still, I think the perspective I would take is the former.  


## "The Importance of Having Users"

_"Treating your users as co-developers is your least-hassle route to rapid code improvement and effective debugging."_

I really agreed with this portion of the essay, because I would hope that all developers have this perspective, not just those working on open source projects. Having an open source project makes the feedback from your users even more valuable, because they have more at their disposal on which to critique and seek improvements. Meanwhile, having users is great, but it doesn't do much unless you listen to them. The quote I selected (above) drives this point home. Treating users like co-developers treats them with respect, and ensures that the developers are being held accountable. Accountability, in all cases, I hope, results in better products.

## "Necessary Preconditions for the Bazaar Style"

_"There is another kind of skill not normally associated with software development which I think is as important as design cleverness to bazaar projects—and it may be more important. A bazaar project coordinator or leader must have good people and communications skills."_

This clarifies that fact that using the Bazaar model for project development is not a one-way ticket to success. Rather, there are conditions that need to be in place before it can really work:

1. Running code
2. Promise of a good idea
3. Effective leadership and communication

These elements all seem obvious, but to me they are realistic and might not come that easily to every project. The first two are concrete elements, but the last one is just as important. I personally like that the essay mentions the need for good leadership because I feel like this human element often gets lost in the conversation of technical projects. Great starter code and a groundbreaking idea will go nowhere without an effective facilitator of the community building up that idea.
