---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

_Thoughts on Danna's Talk, and Codes of Conduct_  

## Google's Approach to Open Source  

Google's approach was summarized by Danna as "Open is Better". To me, it made a lot of sense the different ways in which they value openness internally and externally. I'm happy to know that a large company with lots of proprietary works are also able to balance that with contributions to the open source community. Though they will always have a business interest in making money, their open products can directly benefit many of the individuals and smaller companies who use them; to me, this is a net positive. And personally, I'm excited knowing that it's a possibility for me to work on an open source project at Google when I start in July.


## Code of Conduct  

Having a document like this for a project is useful for governing behavior in communities related to the project. By laying out clear standards for values, behaviors, and making contributions, there is less room for bias to take over in how one person gets treated over another. The hope would be that as long as you abide by the standards and respect the work that was done before you, you will have an equal opportunity to contribute and be a part of the project community. My project, Phaser, does have a [code of conduct here](https://github.com/photonstorm/phaser/blob/master/.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). It is very similar to the Go project's document, and I think has been effective in creating a welcoming community for Phaser!


## Team progress  

This week, I was able to [commit fixes](https://github.com/nyu-ossd-s18/phaser3-examples/commits/melissa) for a few more examples. Not all of these have been made into pull requests yet because I am waiting for another to get merged to verify that the way I have been making the fixes is correct. As of right now, me and two others on my team are waiting to have pull requests merged in the phaser3-examples repo.


## Contributions This Week  

+1: [Commented on three issues #51, #53, #54 to claim](https://github.com/photonstorm/phaser3-examples/issues/54)  
+1: [Submitted PR for three issues](https://github.com/photonstorm/phaser3-examples/pull/105)

**Contributions Total: 17**  
