---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

_Class Website Pull Request, and CodeTriage_

[_Click here to see my pull request for the class website!_](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/pull/61)

## Creating The Pull Request  

To get started with the pull request, I forked the original repository so that I could have my own copy upon which to make changes. Once it was forked, I cloned it locally, edited the daily/01.markdown file, then staged and committed my changes to my remote fork.  

After doing this, I returned to the GitHub web interface to create the actual pull request. When creating a new pull request, I selected the original class website repository as the base fork (on the gh-pages branch) and my forked repository as the head fork (on the gh-pages branch). From there, the differences between the two repositories were displayed, showing the line that I edited to correct my assigned issue.

Lastly, I named my pull request after the issue I had fixed, and left a short description to clarify that I had corrected the typo.  


## My CodeTriage Experience

I subscribed to issues from two projects: [Materialize](https://github.com/dogfalo/materialize), and [Caravel](https://github.com/apache/incubator-superset) (which I later learned from browsing through the repository was renamed 'Superset' over a year ago, but this change was _not_ reflected on CodeTriage's website). The projects are both of similar size contributors-wise, but Caravel had significantly more issues being submitted. As such, it was a bit more overwhelming to navigate the issues emailed to me than for Materialize.  

The issues I was sent for Superset were not things I had any idea how to fix. They were issues like "Would Superset Project open a user forum?", "Implementation of cancel query functionality for some large databases", and "Slow query in SQL Lab". As someone who does not use the product, and who doesn't understand all the technologies, it was hard to grapple with triaging these issues.  

With Materialize, I had a little more to offer. [One of the issues](https://github.com/Dogfalo/materialize/issues/5613) I was sent was actually about a design discussion for the CSS framework. The issue was titled "flat button colors", and the issue, I realized, should have been a bit more fleshed out. I learned that unless the issues are posted using the project's issue template, it tends not to get much traction. So, I left a comment asking for clarification of what the issue poster thought was an issue, and also suggested that he elaborate on his issue with the template! Although I could not fix the issue, I believe I did what the busier contributors would have like to do, but didn't have the time to do.
