---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---



## Open Source

To me, "open source" indicates a work in progress. When a project is open source, it gives me the impression that it is open to collaboration and improvements. That is not to say that the project is inherently flawed, but rather that the originators of the project understand the value in sharing ideas in order to make stronger ones in the long term.

The advantage of open source software is that it's tailorable. A user has the power not only to see which instructions are being run on their computer, but also to make changes.
Closed Source software, from the perspective of the user, can be advantageous for the opposite reason: if you don't want to, you don't need to fuss with customizing anything anyway. Thus, a potential problem with open source software is that it may be harder to use.

On the development side of things, making your project open source can enable you to find much needed assistance with a project if your original team is not that large to begin with, or if you're interested in getting a variety of opinions. This could allow a project's major issues and bugs to come to the surface sooner, just by having a larger and more diverse set of eyes on the source code; however, this reliance on external hands to build and maintain a project can be a problem. Contributors, at least those who are not professionally employed by the project itself, could simply lose interest in the project over time and end up abandoning the project.


## Projects

1. [Atom](https://atom.io/)  
_A modern, customizable text editor developed by GitHub_  
I have regularly used Atom as my primary text editor for nearly a year. I initially downloaded it because visually it is very refined, and it combines a sleek interface with a lot of plug-ins for customization. Alternatives to Atom would be similar text editors such as Sublime text, or even and IDE like Eclipse or IntelliJ. 
2. [NYC Open Data](https://opendata.cityofnewyork.us/)  
_A website which hosts a wealth of public data generated by various NYC organizations and agencies_  
I have never used NYC open data in a code-based project, but I have browsed through data out of curiosity in the past. It's empowering having access to data about phenomena you encounter each day in New York, whether it's about car accidents, noise in the neighborhoods, etc. The alternative here would be keeping the people of New York in the dark about some of these statistics, making it harder to hold the city accountable for improvements that should be made.
3. [p5.js](https://p5js.org/)  
_A JavaScript library based on_ Processing _with drawing and animation functionality_  
I learned p5.js last semester in an _Interactive Computing_ course, and I really enjoyed making games and animations with it! It is very easy to get started with, and makes drawing on the web incredibly simple, allowing you to focus on the higher level details of your project. Alternatively, one could use the lower-level canvas drawing tools in HTML, but these are not very refined and alone do not have as much power.

4. [A-Frame](https://aframe.io/)
_A virtual reality web framework_  
This was another piece of software that I became familiar with last semester, which I used to create very simple VR worlds that not only worked on a desktop, but for a mobile device to be inserted into a VR headset. This made VR extremely accessible, and I am not sure I would have figured out where to start with looking for alternatives.


## Questions for Tom:
* What brought you to Red Hat in 2001?  
* What attracted you to the role that you're in now? 
